---
title: "MATH 3320.02 - Applied Statistics"
collection: teaching
type: "Undergraduate course"
permalink: /teaching/2019-fall-MATH-3320-02
venue: "St. Edward's University - Mathematics"
date: 2019-08-01
location: "Austin, TX"
---


## Welcome
Welcome to the course page for the Fall 2019 course of MATH 3320: Applied Statistics at St. Edward's University.

## Course Info
**Title**: MATH 3320: Applied Statistics
**Semester**: Fall 2019
**Credits**: 3
**Section**: 02
**Time**: 10:00AM - 10:50AM MWF
**Location**: JBWS 363

## What is this course all about?
This class is designed to help you understand data. Whether that data is coming from a chemistry experiment, a medical journal, or just something you read online. We want to help you make informed decisions that are based on more than just "well I feel like...". This class is very often taken by Biology majors, though many other majors require it.

## FAQ
**What are the prerequisites?** A "D" or better in MATH 2413 - Calculus I

**When is this class?** MWF 10 - 10:50am in John Brooks Williams (JBW) South room 363.

**What is the textbook?** We are using the FREE textbook OpenIntro Statistics (fourth edition). You should download the textbook before the first day of class.

**Who are you?** My name is Paul Savala, and I am an Assistant Professor in the Math department here. I grew up in California, did my PhD at the University of Iowa, and came back to Southern California to work for several years as a Visiting Assistant Professor at Whittier College. I then worked for a year as a data scientist, and am thrilled to be returning to teaching! If you want more interesting facts from me, you need to pay up with one of your own! So come say hi!

**Is this class a lot of work?** Yes. You will be doing homework, worksheets and projects, along with preparing for the usual midterms. If you want to do well (or even just pass) this class, you need to determine right now that you will work hard. I don't do this to punish you or because I've got nothing better to do. The truth is, statistics is tricky because it requires learning both the theory and how those things are useful in the real world. Having said that, most students in my past stats classes have told me they got more out of that class than any other math class, and sometimes any class at all. I have no doubt that anyone who is a hard worker and commits to doing well in this class will do well.

**What is this class going to be like?** My promise to you is that you will never learn anything in this class without first learning why you should care. My favorite part about teaching is not the math, but helping people learn how to better understand the world and themselves. We'll spend a lot of time talking about real world issues, both serious and fun. We'll also work with actual data in this class, not just faked up textbook data. The most important part of this whole class will not be your computations, but rather you explaining what those results tell you. 